Feature/young professional programme 2020 light edition (#617)
ordina-jworks/ordina-jworks.github.io: _posts/2020-03-31-Ordina-Young-Professional-Programme-2020-Light-Edition.md

This book gives you a general understanding of the Spring framework. 
On the second day there was a short Spring Presentation by Ken Coenen. 
Ken explained how all the Spring magic works behind the scenes 
and talked about the common components of the full Spring framework.

### Unit Testing
We also had a course about testing. We had an interactive hands-on session about multiple subjects like Test Driven Development, 
goals of testing, what to test, fixtures, mocks and assertions.

### Databases
<img class="image right medium" alt="PostgreSql logo" src="/img/2020-03-31-Young-Professional-2020-Light/postgre-sql.png">

Databases are essential to the development of applications, you will almost always need some form of data storage. 
So we followed a session with Tom Van Bulck who showed us all kinds of databases. 
First we saw a traditional relational database, in this case PostgreSQL, 
a database which is widely known and used in many different projects around the world. 

<img class="image left medium" alt="MongoDB logo" src="/img/2020-03-31-Young-Professional-2020-Light/mongodb.png">

Then we stepped away from relational databases to look at other kinds. 

> More specifically MongoDB which is a non relational database, otherwise known as a noSQL database. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
More specifically MongoDB which is a non relational database, otherwise known as a NoSQL database. 
```

In MongoDB's case it's a document store. 
Here you don't have a fixed schema, 
instead you upload JSON documents which you can then easily query using an SQL style query syntax. 

> Apart from MongoDB we also learned about Cassandra, which is a noSQL column store, and Redis, which is a key value store. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Apart from MongoDB we also learned about Cassandra, which is a NoSQL column store, and Redis, which is a key value store. 
```

Last but not least we studied a graph database, namely Neo4J. 

# Front end

### HTML, CSS, Javascript
<img class="image right medium" alt="HtmlCssJs logo" src="/img/2020-03-31-Young-Professional-2020-Light/html-css-js.png">

> Since the Young Professional programme teaches a wide array of technologies we had saw quite a few front end technologies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since the Young Professional programme teaches a wide array of technologies we have seen quite a few front end technologies.
```

> Starting off with the basics of almost every front end technology, HTML5, CSS and Javascript. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Starting off with the basics of almost every front end technology, HTML5, CSS and JavaScript. 
```

In the first part of this session we took a dive into the basics of HTML and CSS, 
and after this we learned about the more recent features of HTML5 and CSS3. 
The remainder of the session was mainly about JavaScript. 
Throughout the session we had some exercises to have a bit of a hands-on approach.
    

### Typescript
<img class="image left medium" alt="Typescript logo" src="/img/2020-03-31-Young-Professional-2020-Light/typescript.png">

> Building on the basics we learned prior, we had a session about Typescript, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Building on the basics we learned prior, we had a session about TypeScript, 
```

> a derivative of Javascript that is becoming more and more popular amongst most front end frameworks 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a derivative of JavaScript that is becoming more and more popular amongst most front end frameworks 
```

> because of it's similarity to Javascript but also having types allowing stricter rules to be enforced 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
because of its similarity to JavaScript but also having types allowing stricter rules to be enforced 
```

and less random unexplainable errors. 

> Similarly to the previous session we got an explanation on the basics of Typescript which was then used in some exercises.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Similarly to the previous session we got an explanation on the basics of TypeScript which was then used in some exercises.
```

### Angular
<img class="image right medium" alt="Angular logo" src="/img/2020-03-31-Young-Professional-2020-Light/angular.png">

Eventually we reached the end of our front end training with a 2-day Angular course. 
Everything we learnt the previous days was now being poured into a framework. 

> In this course we, again, saw the basics of this massive Typescript framework. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this course we, again, saw the basics of this massive TypeScript framework. 
```

<img class="image left medium" alt="Docker logo" src="/img/2020-03-31-Young-Professional-2020-Light/docker.png">

To start off our cloud education we had a session about Docker, which is essential to many cloud technologies. 
Tom Verelst gave an interesting hand-on session where he first explained the concepts of Docker, 
then we started writing our own yaml deployment files to set up our first full stack application.

### Kubernetes
<img class="image right medium" alt="Kubernetes logo" src="/img/2020-03-31-Young-Professional-2020-Light/kubernetes.png">

Kubernetes is an open source container orchestration framework, which is commonly used to deploy applications. 
Pieter Vincken taught us the basics of Kubernetes. 
We started with a presentation about the core concepts like pods, secrets and more. 
Then we learned how to deploy and manage our Docker containers using Kubernetes. 
During this session we got the hang of how you could manage your clusters by using various techniques provided by Kubernetes 
like auto scaling, load balancing,... 
It was really insightful to see how easy it is to deploy and manage your applications on a Kubernetes cluster. 

### Security Principles

> In this day and age security is a hot topic. 

Reviewer: Let's also add an image here?
You could use the lock image from Jeroen Meys' weekly security quiz.
Let me know if you need help with trimming its canvas.

During this session we went over the basics on how to protect your application. 

> From validating user input to database security, but also how to protect the users data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From validating user input to database security, but also how to protect the users' data.
```

# Clean Code

> Today, one of the most important skills a developer has is Clean Code. 

Reviewer: As for an image here, you can use the Clean Code book.

To explore this complex topic, we read the book 'Clean Code' by Robert C. Martin, 
which is one of the must reads for every programmer.
To be able to write clean code, an understanding of what bad code is is needed. 
This is also explained in the first chapter of the book.
Some examples of topics in the book we still use everyday are: 
- Avoiding comments but using descriptive names
- Functions should be small and do one thing
- Use one word per concept
- ...

# Dev case
### Introduction

> For our dev case, our task was to make a fully functional web application for MFC Combo. 

Reviewer: Can have MFC Combo link to their website:
```suggestion
For our dev case, our task was to make a fully functional web application for [MFC Combo](https://www.mfccombo.be){:target="blank" rel="noopener noreferrer"}. 
```

MFC Combo is an organization in youth care who guide families and children with a difficult situation at home. 
They use the "Combobox" in their meetings with the families. 
This is used to make communication easier and more fun.

> right medium now, they have physical stickers and papers to let the child express their feelings, 

Reviewer: Right medium now? :)
```suggestion
Right now, they have physical stickers and papers to let the child express their feelings, 
```

> but they want it to become digital so that it's easier to follow-up a child.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
but they want it to become digital so that it's easier to follow up a child.
```

## Technology & Methodologies
We worked Agile in two-weekly sprints with all the Scrum Ceremonies. 
Azure DevOps made this process easy and made sure our code was always clean and working as expected using CI/CD. 
For the front end, we used the Angular Framework to develop the application, combined with Jasmine and Karma for testing. Authentication was done using AWS Amplify, which is a development platform. 
This allowed us to quickly set up the authentication and authorization of our app. 
Sentry.io was used for front end logging and monitoring after deployment. 
This way, we had full control over our code, from development to deployment and even after deployment.
For the back end, we used Java Spring Boot 2.3.1. 

> Our Database was a noSQL DynamoDB, for user management we used Cognito and finally for our file storage we used an S3 bucket. All of these services were set up in AWS. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our Database was a NoSQL DynamoDB, for user management we used Cognito and finally for our file storage we used an S3 bucket. All of these services were set up in AWS. 
```

This means we used the AWS Java SDK to manipulate these services in an easy and structured way.

### Result
<img class="image" alt="Drag & drop gif"  style="max-width: 50%; padding-left medium: 4px" src="/img/2020-03-31-Young-Professional-2020-Light/board.gif">

After 10 sprints we created an online platform for Combobox. 

> This platform would assist them in their day to day operations. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This platform would assist them in their day-to-day operations. 
```

The application included various features like: drag & drop capabilities, user management, file management, 
sticker management, overview of current cases, authorization & authentication. 
One of the most challenging parts of the project was the implementation of the Drag & Drop feature, 
for which we created a new directive. 
The result can be seen in the following screenshots:

<img class="image" alt="Login Page" style="max-width: 100%;" src="/img/2020-03-31-Young-Professional-2020-Light/login.jpg">

<img class="image" alt="Upload Page"  style="max-width: 100%;" src="/img/2020-03-31-Young-Professional-2020-Light/upload.jpg">

> <img class="image" alt="Fox Icon" src="/img/2020-03-31-Young-Professional-2020-Light/icons8-fox-48.png"

Reviewer: What's this? 🤓

Author: Tribute to our dev case coach 😁  (if it's okay 😅 )
